# P2P Backup Service on the Internet

The Project was developed using InteliJ IDEA. The project can be viewed and compiled using this IDE, 
however the project is already precompiled in **Java 11**

## Requirements
### Java 
    Version 11 or above (Using the provided build)
    Version 10 or above (Compiling the Source Code)

### Microsoft Windows 
    The networking was only tested on this OS. Also required for using the provided scripts

## Initializing Peers
Each peer can be initialized using the `peer.bat` script in the following manner:

`.\peer <PEER_ADDRESS:PEER_PORT> (<PEER_CONTACT_ADDRESS:PEER_CONTACT_PORT>)? <CLIENT_PORT>`

- `<PEER_ADDRESS:PEER_PORT>` Address of this peer to be exposed to the other peers
- `<PEER_CONTACT_ADDRESS:PEER_CONTACT_PORT>` **Optional** address of the peer being used to join 
its network (Lack of this argument will result in the peer being in a new network)
- `<CLIENT_PORT>` Port used to listen for client requests

## Client Requests
Client Requests can be made using the `client.bat` script in the following manner:

`.\client <PORT> <REQUEST ARGUMENTS>`

- `<PORT>` Port being used for connecting with the peer (Corresponds to that peer's `<CLIENT_PORT>`)

- `<REQUEST ARGUMENTS>` Arguments for the request, as specified below
    - `BACKUP (-s | --share)? <FILE_PATH>` The peer backs up the given file in its network.

        - When the -s / --share option is given, a metadata file is generated, which can be 
        shared to other users so they can download the file as well.

    - `DOWNLOAD (<META_PATH> | <OWNER_PATH>)`
     The Peer downloads the file from the network, given its metadata file or owner file 
     (file generated by the backup peer, on the owner directory).

    - `LIST (-o | --owner)` The Peer lists the files it has backed up to the client.

    - `LIST (-c | --chunk)` The Peer lists the chunks it is storing for the network to the client.

    - `DELETE <OWNER_PATH>` The Peer deletes the file from the network, given its owner file.
      
    - `STORAGE <MAX_STORAGE>` Sets the Maximum Storage used by the peer to store chunks. Any 
    overflowing storage will be reclaimed.

## GUI Client
The application was going to feature a simple GUI for streamlining the interaction with the peer
by abstracting from these requests. However this feature was not fully finished, being only capable
of showing the peer's state (Both `LIST` requests) and reloading this state.

The GUI Client can be started using the `gui.bat` in the following manner:

`.\gui <PORT>`

- `<PORT>` Port being used for connecting with the peer (Corresponds to that peer's `<CLIENT_PORT>`)